The Project Gutenberg eBook, The Kitchen Encyclopedia, by Anonymous


This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org





Title: The Kitchen Encyclopedia
       Twelfth Edition (Swift & Company)


Author: Anonymous



Release Date: September 17, 2010  [eBook #33748]

Language: English


***START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE KITCHEN ENCYCLOPEDIA***


E-text prepared by Tor Martin Kristiansen, Fox in the Stars, S. D., and
the Project Gutenberg Online Distributed Proofreading Team
(http://www.pgdp.net)



Note: Project Gutenberg also has an HTML version of this
      file which includes the original illustrations.
      See 33748-h.htm or 33748-h.zip:
      (http://www.gutenberg.org/files/33748/33748-h/33748-h.htm)
      or
      (http://www.gutenberg.org/files/33748/33748-h.zip)





THE KITCHEN ENCYCLOPEDIA

You will find many helpful
suggestions in this book; all
of them are tried and practical

Twelfth Edition







Swift & Company, U. S. A.
Copyright, 1911, by Swift & Company


_Keep this book in your kitchen for ready reference_




The Truth about Oleomargarine


Swift's Premium Oleomargarine is a sweet, pure, clean, food product made
from rich cream and edible fats. It contains _every element of
nutrition_ found in the best creamery butter.

The process of manufacture is primitive in its simplicity, but modern in
its cleanliness and purity.

The butter fat in Swift's Premium Oleomargarine is microscopically and
chemically _the same_ as in the best butter; the only difference is _in
the way_ it is secured from the cow.

Butter fat in butter is all obtained by churning. In Swift's Premium
Oleomargarine from 1/3 to 1/2 obtained in that way, the remainder is
pressed from the choicest fat of Government inspected animals. This
pressed fat is called "Oleo" hence the name "Oleomargarine."

Rich cream, fancy creamery butter, 'oleo' 'neutral,' vegetable oil and
dairy salt are the _only_ ingredients of Premium Oleomargarine.
'Neutral' is pressed from leaf fat. It is odorless and tasteless.

There is _no coloring matter_ added to Premium Oleomargarine, yet it is
a tempting rich cream color.

Each week day during the year 1911 there has been an average of more
than 400 visitors through our Chicago Oleomargarine Factory.

In addition to this daily inspection by the visiting public our
factories are in complete charge of Government Inspectors.

These men test the quality and character of materials, they see that the
contents of every tierce of 'oleo' and 'neutral' received from the
Refinery is from animals that have passed the rigid Government
inspection. They see that everything about the factories is kept
absolutely clean and sanitary.

Read what a Government expert said about Oleomargarine:

The late Prof. W. O. Atwater, director of the United States Government
Agricultural Experiment Station at Washington:

"It contains essentially the same ingredients as natural butter from
cow's milk. It is perfectly wholesome and healthy and has a high
nutritious value."

Order a carton of Swift's Premium Oleomargarine today to try it. You
will find that it is a delicious, wholesome food product that you can
use in your home and effect a great saving, still maintaining your
standard of good living.

We particularly invite you to visit our factories and see for yourself
the cleanliness surrounding this interesting industry.

{Footer: Did you know that Swift's Premium Oleomargarine contains
essentially the same ingredients as natural butter from cows milk?}




Recipes


  You can make exactly as good cakes, pies, cookies, and candies by
      substituting for the butter named in your recipes 3/4 the
      quantity of Swift's Premium Oleomargarine. On this and the
      following pages are a few recipes in which this substitution has
      been made. Try them. You will find them good and more economical
      than when made with butter.

  You may have some favorite recipes that are too expensive on account
      of the large amount of butter required. You can reduce their cost
      by using Swift's Premium Oleomargarine.


Loaf Fig Cake

Light Part

  1/2 cupful Swift's Premium Oleomargarine
  1/2 cupful sweet milk
  1-1/2 teaspoonfuls baking-powder
  1 cupful sugar
  1-1/2 cupfuls flour
  1 teaspoonful vanilla
  Whites of 4 eggs

  Cream the oleomargarine and sugar. Add the milk, with which the
      vanilla has been mixed. Sift the baking-powder with the flour and
      add gradually. Add the whites, well beaten, last.

Dark Part

  1/2 cupful Swift's Premium Oleomargarine
  3/4 cupful milk
  1-1/2 teaspoonfuls baking-powder
  Yolks of 4 eggs
  1/2 pound of raisins
  1-1/2 cupfuls sugar
  3 cupfuls flour
  1 dessertspoonful each of cinnamon, cloves, allspice, and nutmeg
  1 pound of figs

  Cream the oleomargarine and sugar. Add the egg-yolks, well beaten,
      then the milk. Sift the baking-powder and spices with the flour
      and add gradually. The raisins should be seeded and dredged with
      flour, and the figs should be cut in small pieces and dredged
      with flour and added to the batter the last thing. Put in the pan
      alternate layers of each part and bake in a loaf.

{Footer: The Italian uses olive oil; the Swiss, butter from goat's milk;
and the thrifty American housewife, Swift's Premium Oleomargarine.}


Sugar Cookies

  1 cupful Swift's Premium Oleomargarine
  1 cupful sour milk
  1 teaspoonful soda
  2 cupfuls sugar
  3 eggs, well beaten
  Flavoring to taste
  Flour enough to roll out thin

  Cream the oleomargarine and sugar. Add the eggs, whites and yolks
      beaten together. Dissolve the soda in the sour milk. Add this and
      then the flour. Roll out thin. Just before cutting out the
      cookies sift granulated sugar on top and roll it in slightly,
      then cut out cookies with cookie-cutter and bake in a moderate
      oven.


Lemon Pie

  1 cupful sugar
  2 tablespoonfuls flour
  Yolks of three eggs
  1 cupful water
  Juice and grated rind of 1 lemon
  A lump of Swift's Premium Oleomargarine the size of an egg

  Put all together in an oatmeal cooker and cook over hot water until
      thick. Take from the fire and cool a little. Line a deep
      pie-plate with crust, pour in the lemon mixture, and bake in a
      moderate oven until the crust is done. Remove from the oven and
      have ready the whites of the three eggs, beaten up stiff, with
      three level tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar; spread this
      meringue smoothly over the pie, return to the oven, and bake a
      light brown.


Cornbread

  1/4 cupful Swift's Premium Oleomargarine
  1 cupful sweet milk
  1 cupful cornmeal
  1/4 cupful sugar
  1 cupful flour
  2 teaspoonfuls baking-powder
  2 eggs

  Sift together meal, flour, baking-powder, and sugar. To this add in
      order the milk, the egg-yolks well beaten, the oleomargarine
      melted and lastly the well-beaten whites of the eggs. Bake in a
      hot oven for thirty to thirty-five minutes. This is particularly
      delicious if just before it is done half a cupful of cream is
      poured over the top.

{Footer: Have you tasted Swift's Premium Oleomargarine?}


Oatmeal Crackers

  3/4 cupful Swift's Premium Oleomargarine
  2 cupfuls rolled oats
  1/2 cupful milk
  1/2 teaspoonful soda
  1-1/2 cupfuls raisins chopped fine
  2 cupfuls flour
  1 cupful sugar
  1 teaspoonful cinnamon
  3 eggs
  A pinch of salt

  Cream oleomargarine and sugar. Add egg-yolks well beaten. Dissolve
      soda in milk and add next. Mix oats, flour, salt, and cinnamon
      together well and add. Add the raisins last. Beat well and drop
      with a spoon on to buttered tins and bake in moderate oven.


English Walnut Pudding

  1/2 cupful Swift's Premium Oleomargarine
  1 egg
  1 cupful boiling water
  1 teaspoonful cinnamon
  1/2 cupful walnuts
  1 cupful molasses
  1 teaspoonful soda
  3 cupfuls flour
  1/2 teaspoonful cloves
  1/2 cupful raisins

  Beat the egg white and yolk together and add it to the molasses.
      Dissolve the soda in the boiling water and add that next. Mix
      flour, cinnamon, and cloves together and add gradually. Add the
      butterine melted. Lastly add the raisins. Steam two and a half
      hours. Serve warm with sauce made of one cupful Swift's Premium
      Oleomargarine stirred until smooth with one cupful powdered
      sugar. Add one egg, flavor to taste, and beat until smooth.


Penoche

  1/4 cupful Swift's Premium Oleomargarine
  1-1/2 cupfuls rich milk
  3 cupfuls light-brown sugar
  1 cupful chopped walnuts

  Stir together the oleomargarine, milk, and sugar, and cook until it
      can be picked up when dropped in cold water. Beat until it
      thickens and add the walnuts slightly salted. Pour in buttered
      tins and cut in squares.

{Footer: Ask your grocer for a carton of Swift's Premium Oleomargarine.}


Butter Scotch

  3/4 cupful Swift's Premium Oleomargarine
  1 cupful molasses
  2 cupfuls sugar
  1/3 cupful vinegar

  Put all together and cook, stirring all the time. Cook until brittle
      when dropped in cold water. Pour into buttered tins and mark for
      breaking before it is cold.


Ginger Bread

  1/2 cupful Swift's Premium Oleomargarine
  1 cupful molasses
  1 teaspoonful ginger
  1 teaspoonful cloves
  1 teaspoonful cinnamon
  1/8 teaspoonful nutmeg
  1 egg, beaten light
  1/2 cupful sugar
  1 cupful sour milk
  1 teaspoonful baking soda
  2 cupfuls flour

  Mix into a light dough and bake in a flat pan. Quick oven.


Cookies

  1-1/2 cupfuls sugar
  3/4 cupful Swift's Premium Oleomargarine
  1 cupful sour cream
  3 eggs
  1/2 teaspoonful soda
  1 teaspoonful nutmeg
  1 teaspoonful vanilla
  1 teaspoonful almond

  Mix with flour enough to roll thin, and bake in a quick oven.

{Footer: Would you like to reduce your butter bill? Then use Swift's
Premium Oleomargarine.}




On Baking-Day


When you wish a fine-grained cake, beat the whites of the eggs to a
stiff foam with a Dover egg-beater. If something spongy, such as an
angel cake, is desired, use a wire egg-beater, which makes a more
air-inflated foam.

Recipes in the older, much-prized cook-books often call for a teacupful
of yeast. A teacupful liquid yeast is equal to one cake of compressed
yeast.

To remove pecan meats whole, pour boiling water over nuts and let them
stand until cold. Then stand the nut on end and crack with a hammer,
striking the small end of the nut.

If beef or mutton drippings are used in making a pie-crust, beat them to
a cream with a teaspoonful of baking-powder and the juice of half a
lemon. This effectually removes all taste.

When a cake sticks to a pan, set it for a few minutes on a cloth wrung
out of cold water. It will then come out in good shape.

Heat the blade of the bread-knife before cutting a loaf of fresh bread.
This prevents the usual breaking and crumbling of the slices. For
cutting hot fudge, first dip the blade of the knife in boiling water.

Nothing is better for pudding molds than jelly tumblers with light tin
covers. One can readily tell when the puddings are done without removing
the covers.

The juice will not boil out of apple or berry pies if you dot bits of
Swift's Premium Oleomargarine near the outer edge.

A little salt in the oven under the baking-tins will prevent burning on
the bottom.

There is nothing more effective for removing the burned crust from cake
or bread than a flat grater. It works evenly and leaves a smooth
surface.

Use a wooden potato masher for stirring butter and sugar together for a
cake. It is much quicker than a spoon.

{Footer: Swift's Premium Oleomargarine is sweet, pure, and clean.}




Renovating Suggestions


TO CLEAN A VELVET SUIT, sponge the spots with pure alcohol. Then suspend
the suit on a hanger in the bathroom in such a way that the air can
reach all sides of the garment. Turn on the hot water in the tub until
the steam fills the room; shut the door and windows; shut off the water,
and let the steam do its work for an hour. Then admit the air, but do
not touch the garment until it is perfectly dry.

TO REMOVE SHINE FROM WOOLEN GOODS, use gentle friction with emery paper.
Rub just enough to raise the nap, and then rub it over with a piece of
silk.

TO MEND KID GLOVES, first buttonhole around the rent not so close as in
a buttonhole; then overcast, taking up the thread of the buttonhole on
the edge, and then draw together.

TO CLEAN MEN'S COAT COLLARS, rub with a black stocking saturated with
grain alcohol. This will remove the greasy look.

TO FRESHEN A THIN DRESS, dissolve two teaspoonfuls of elastic starch in
half a cupful of lukewarm water, and with a soft rag dampen on the right
side, then with a hot iron press on the wrong side.

TO CLEAN GREASE SPOTS FROM SILK, split a visiting card and rub the soft
internal part on the spot on the wrong side of the silk. The spot will
disappear without taking the gloss off the silk.

TO MEND LACE CURTAINS, take a small piece of net, dip it and the
curtains in hot starch, and apply the patch over the hole. The patch
will adhere when dry, and the repair will show much less than if the
curtains were mended.

TO RENEW VEILS, dip them in gum-arabic water, and pin them out to dry as
you would a lace curtain. When dry they will look like new.

TO FRESHEN BLACK TAFFETA OR SATIN, sponge with a cupful of strong tea to
which a little ammonia has been added. Then press on the wrong side over
a damp cloth.

TO REMOVE PERSPIRATION STAINS, lay the stain over clean white
blotting-paper, and sponge with equal parts of alcohol and ether mixed.
Rub dry, then touch lightly with household ammonia. If this leaves a
blur, rub well with powdered French chalk on the wrong side. The
blotting-paper prevents the fluids from forming a ring around the spot.




House-Cleaning Hints and Helps


TO CLEAN LINEN SHADES, lay them flat and rub with powdered bath-brick.

TO CLEAN PIANO KEYS, rub with muslin dipped in alcohol. If the keys are
very yellow, use a piece of flannel moistened with cologne water.

TO CLEAN BOOKS with delicate bindings, which are soiled from handling,
rub with chamois skin dipped in powdered pumice stone.

TO RESTORE STRAW MATTING which has become stained or faded, wash with a
strong solution of soda water. Use ordinary baking soda and plenty of
Swift's Pride Soap and wash thoroughly, and when dry it will be found
that the spots have all disappeared and the matting is all one color.

TO CLEAN GLASS VASES, tea-leaves moistened with vinegar will remove the
discoloration in glass vases caused by flowers, such as asters.

TO CLEAN WINDOWS AND MIRRORS, rub them over with thin cold starch, let
it dry on, and then wipe off with a soft cloth. This will clean the
glass and also give it a brilliant polish.

TO REMOVE PAINT from window glass, use strong hot vinegar.

TO REMOVE WHITE SPOTS FROM FURNITURE, rub first with oil, and then with
slightly diluted alcohol.

TO REMOVE STAINS from an enameled saucepan, fill with water, add a
little chloride of lime, and boil for a few minutes.

TO CLEAN WILLOW-WARE, wash with salt water, using a brush.

TO POLISH THE GLOBES of gas and electric-light fixtures, wash with water
in which a few drops of ammonia have been dissolved.

TO CLEAN TILING, wipe with a soft cloth wrung out in soapy water. Never
scrub tiling, as scrubbing or the use of much water will eventually
loosen the cement and dislodge the sections.

TO BRIGHTEN NICKEL trimmings on a gas stove, wash with warm water, in
which two tablespoonfuls of kerosene have been stirred.

TO SAVE DUSTING, a piece of cheese cloth about two yards long placed on
the floor in a freshly swept room will save much of the usual dusting.




Laundry Helps


A few cents' worth of powdered orris-root put in the wash water will
impart a delicate odor to the clothes.

Hot milk is better than hot water to remove fruit stains.

To remove spots from gingham, wet with milk and cover with common salt.
Leave for two hours, then rinse thoroughly.

In washing white goods that have become yellow, put a few drops of
turpentine into the water, then lay on the grass to dry in the strong
sunshine.

To make wash silk look like new, put a tablespoonful of wood alcohol to
every quart of water when rinsing and iron while still damp.

When washing, if the article is badly soiled, use a small scrubbing
brush and scrub the goods over the washboard.

To set green or blue, mauve or purple, soak the articles for at least
ten minutes in alum water before washing them. Use an ounce of alum to a
gallon of water. To set brown or tan color, soak for ten minutes in a
solution made of a cupful of vinegar in a pail of water. Black goods and
black-and-white goods need to be soaked in strong salt water, or to have
a cupful of turpentine put into the wash water. Yellows, buffs, and tans
are made much brighter by having a cupful of strong, strained coffee put
in the rinsing water.

When ironing fine pieces, instead of sprinkling afresh, take a piece of
muslin, wring it out in cold water, and lay on the ironing board under
the article; press with a warm iron; remove the wet piece and iron.

When making starch for light clothes use Wool Soap in the water. This
will give the clothes a glossy appearance and the irons will not stick.

Badly scorched linen may be improved by using the following solution:
Boil together well a pint of vinegar, an ounce of Wool Soap, four ounces
of fuller's earth, and the juice of two onions. Spread this solution
over the scorched spots on the linen and let it dry. Afterward wash the
garment and the scorch will disappear.

To keep the clothes-line from twisting, hold the ball of rope in one
hand and wind with the other until a twist appears; then change ball to
the other hand and the twist will disappear. Keep doing this, changing
the rope from one hand to the other until the line is all wound up.




About House Plants


To make ferns grow better, place some thin pieces of raw beef close to
the inside of the pot, between the pot and the soil.

Old-fashioned portulaca makes a pretty low-growing green for a fern
dish.

To prevent plants from dropping their buds, give extra good drainage and
systematic but moderate watering.

An infallible wash for destroying the scaly insects that infest house
plants is made as follows: Place half a bar of Swift's Pride Laundry
Soap in a deep saucer and pour kerosene around it. Let this stand for
about a week until the soap has absorbed the oil. Then make a strong
lather of this soap and with it wash the plants. After which spray them
with clear water until clean.

To destroy aphis, shower foliage of infested plant on both sides with
strong tobacco tea, or, if the plant be small enough, immerse it in this
tea.

Insects in the earth of a potted plant may be destroyed by pouring over
the soil a glass of water in which a pinch of mustard has been stirred.

If an asparagus fern turns yellow, repot it, giving it a strong loam
enriched with one-fifth very old and finely crumbed manure and add a
little coarse sand. Give the fern only an hour or two of sunlight each
day. Water when it looks dry, but do not let it stand in any water that
may have run through into the saucer.

Before putting plants in a wooden window box whitewash the inside of the
box. This not only keeps the box from rotting, but prevents insects.

If sprays of growing nasturtiums are broken off in the late summer and
placed in a bowl of water they will root and grow all winter.




How to Use the Cheaper Cuts of Meat


Much time has been given in the last few years to the study of foods,
their necessary proportions, and the manner of cooking them. Educators
and scientists have alike agreed that this knowledge ought to be
disseminated. On the part of the public also there has been a general
awakening in this regard. There has been a wide demand especially from
those of limited incomes for information on the purchase and preparation
of foods. To meet this demand books have been published and articles
have appeared in the various women's papers giving directions for living
at all sorts of prices, from the extremely low one, "How to Live on Ten
Cents a Day," to the normal one which requires the preparation of
appetizing and satisfying dinners at a nominal cost.

In order to accomplish living comfortably at small cost it is evident
that one must understand the comparative values of foods, so as to
select those which at low prices furnish the necessary nourishment, and,
also, be able to cook them in an appetizing way which will conserve the
nourishment. Meat is a necessity to most people. Yet much of the present
expense in the purchase of meat is needless and unwise. Many pieces of
meat of the best quality are sold at low rates because not in shapes to
be served as roasting or broiling pieces. These serve well for entrees
or made-up dishes. Other pieces which are tough but well flavored can,
in the hands of an educated cook, be sent to the table as tender,
palatable, sightly and nutritious as the prime cuts. It is to show some
methods of preparing these cheaper cuts of meat in an appetizing manner
that the following explanation of the processes of cooking and the
accompanying recipes are given.

Meat is cooked, first, to aid digestion; secondly, to develop new
flavors and render it more palatable.

For cooking there are three essentials besides the material to be
cooked--namely, heat, air, and moisture, the latter in the form of
water, either found in the food or added to it.

The combined effect of heat and moisture swells and bursts starch
grains, hardens albumen, and softens fiber.

Albumen is a substance like the white of an egg. It exists in the juices
of meat and contains much nourishment. If allowed to escape, the
nourishment is lost and the meat is hard. Therefore we have the first
general rule for the cooking of meat, namely:

_To retain the albumen, the outside of each piece of meat should be
seared or sealed at once before the cooking is continued._

Albumen is coagulated and hardened by intense heat. Therefrom comes the
second general rule, namely:

_Intense heat hardens and toughens meat, while a soft moist heat softens
the fiber._

From these general rules we pass to the specific methods of cooking
meat, which are nine in number--broiling, roasting, baking, frying,
sauteing, steaming, boiling, stewing, or fricasseeing.

Broiling and roasting are practically the same, the chief difference
being in the time employed. Both mean to expose one side of the meat to
the fire while the other is exposed to the air. By this method the meat
is quickly seared and the nutritive juices retained. Meat cooked in this
way is richer and finer in flavor.

Baking means cooking in a pan in the oven of a stove, and in these days
of hurry has largely superseded roasting.

Frying is the cooking by immersion in hot fat at a temperature of 350
degrees Fahrenheit. There must be sufficient fat to wholly cover each
article. This method is employed for croquettes, oysters, etc., and is
less injurious to digestion than sauteing.

Sauteing is cooking in a small quantity of fat, as an omelet or hashed
browned potatoes are cooked. This is the least wholesome of all methods
of cooking meat, and is often held directly responsible for indigestion.

Steaming is an admirable method of cooking tough meats or hams. Modern
housewives use a "cooker," which comes for this purpose, but the
old-fashioned perforated steamer over a kettle of boiling water is also
good.

Boiling is one of the simplest methods of cooking the cheaper cuts of
meat. Properly employed, it consists in plunging the whole piece of meat
in a large kettle of rapidly boiling water. The meat should be entirely
covered by the water, which should continue to boil rapidly for five
minutes after the meat has been immersed in it. The temperature of the
water should then be immediately lowered to 160 degrees Fahrenheit. If
one has not a cooking thermometer, one has only to remember that water
boils at 212 degrees Fahrenheit, and it will easily be seen that 160
degrees is considerably below the boiling point.

Stewing or fricasseeing is really cooking slowly in a sauce after the
meat has first been browned in a little hot fat. If the mixture is
allowed to boil the meat will be tough and shriveled, but if properly
stewed it will be soft and easy to digest. Fricasseeing is the most
economical of all methods of cooking meat, as there is very little loss
in weight, and what is lost from the meat is found in the sauce.

Braising is a method much used in France, and is a cross between
boiling and baking. It is done in a covered pan in the oven. The meat is
first browned in a little hot fat and then placed in a pan which is
partly filled with stock or water. The pan is covered closely and set in
a hot oven. After ten minutes the temperature of the oven is reduced to
a very low point, and the meat cooks slowly as the stock in the pan
evaporates. This method is the best for inferior pieces which require
long, slow cooking. It is an excellent method of cooking veal. Meat
which is lacking in flavor can be flavored by adding vegetables or herbs
to the stock in the pan.

Different cuts of meat require different methods of cooking to bring
about the best results. The following diagram and the accompanying
suggestions for proper cuts for certain methods of cooking are those
given by a prominent teacher in one of the leading domestic science
schools in the United States.

[Illustration:

  1. Chuck
  2. Ribs
  3. Loin
  4. Rump
  5. Round
  6. Hind Shank
  7. Flank
  8. Navel End
  9. Clod
  10. Fore Shank
  11. Brisket.]




The Practical Value and Use of Fireless Cookers


_The object of the following article is to present in simple and
convenient form the history of the growth of fireless cooking and its
advantages over the ordinary methods, so that those women who have had
no experience in the management of fireless cookers may be encouraged to
try them, and those adventurous women who experimented with the earlier
cookers and met with disappointment may be induced to try again._

_Such eminent authorities as Linda Hull Larned, author of a series of
cook-books; Margaret J. Mitchell, Instructor of Domestic Science at
Drexel, Pa., and formerly Dietitian of Manhattan Institute State
Hospital, N. Y.; Mrs. Runyon, manager of the lunchroom in the Boston
Chamber of Commerce; and Miss Armstrong, director of the Drexel
Institute lunchroom--all advocate the use of fireless cookers, and unite
in the assertion that it has invariably been found that a good
understanding of their management has resulted in success followed
inevitably by enthusiasm._




The Practical Value and Use of Fireless Cookers


This twentieth century is the age of progress in many directions, but
most of all in Domestic Science. Never before has so much attention been
devoted to the home. Journalists are giving columns of space to this
topic. Churches are directing their efforts to the betterment of the
home. Women's Clubs and charitable organizations have taken up the study
of the home. The most important result of all this action and thought is
the widespread awakening to the fact that the social and moral standing
of the home is directly dependent upon its hygienic and economic
condition.

In view of this fact, the National Federation of Women's Clubs has
practically covered the United States with their County, State, and
National Committees on Housekeeping. They know that bad cooking in the
home means unsatisfied stomachs, to gratify whose cravings the saloons
are filled; it means anemic children, a physical condition that tends to
produce criminals; it means premature funerals. To remedy these evils,
churches, journalists, philanthropists, clubs are alike working, and all
are working along the same lines--that is, better home furnishings,
better fuels, better utensils, more efficient, more economic, and less
laborious methods of housekeeping. They have not only sought and
introduced new inventions, but they have studied the past and adapted
and bettered the old.

Among the adaptations of the old ideas with new and modern improvements
is the fireless cooker. Ages ago Norwegian and German peasant women,
obliged to be away from the house all day working in the fields, knew
the secret of bringing food to the boiling point and then continuing its
cooking and keeping it hot by packing it in an improvised box of hay. In
the evening when the women returned, weary and worn from their field
labor, there was the family dinner all ready to serve.

German club women were the first to see the value of this idea adapted
to the needs of the German working class of the present day. These
German club women revived the hay boxes and distributed numbers of them
among poor families and began an educational campaign on their use. The
American manufacturer, ever on the alert for ideas, was quick to
perceive the economic and commercial advantages of making such an
appliance in an up-to-date manner, and so to-day we have on the market
numerous fireless cookers.

The principle of fireless cooking, though it bears the difficult name
of recaloration, is simple enough. It is merely the retention of heat
through complete insulation, just as we retain cold in the ice-box by
complete insulation. In the first case, a material which is a poor
conductor of heat is interposed between the kettle of hot food and the
surrounding atmosphere to prevent radiation or the escape of heat into
the surrounding air. In the second case, a poor conductor of heat is
placed between the ice and the warmer surrounding atmosphere to prevent
the contact of the atmosphere with the ice and the consequent
equalization of temperatures. A vacuum is an excellent non-conductor of
heat and is employed in the Thermos bottles advertised for use on
automobile trips, but a vacuum is expensive and difficult to obtain,
which accounts for the high price of Thermos bottles. The effort has
been to find some insulating agent within the means of the average
housewife. This has now been done in the metal-lined cookers.

The explanation of the cooking principle is equally simple. Ordinarily
we heat food to a certain temperature, say, the boiling point, and then
we leave it over the fire for some time, not to get hotter, that would
be impossible, but to keep it at the same degree of heat, and to do this
we must, on account of radiation into the surrounding atmosphere, keep
on supplying heat. In the fireless cooker the heat once generated is
conserved, and there is no need to add thereto.

Herein lies the economy in fuel. You have only to burn gas long enough
to bring the food to the boiling point, and the fireless cooker does the
rest. You can put dinner on to cook, and go to work, to the theatre, to
visit a friend, or read, or sew, without giving your meal any further
attention till time to serve it. This sounds like a fairy tale, but it
is absolutely true.

By the fireless cooker you save nine-tenths of the fuel, and ninety-nine
hundredths of your temper, your time, and your labor. You do not become
perspiring and cross in a hot kitchen. You do not have scorched pots and
kettles to scrape and scour and wash.

Another point in favor of fireless cooking is that it is attended by
absolutely no odors. Such vegetables as onions and cabbage can be cooked
without any one's suspecting they are in the house.

The economy in using the fireless cooker is not confined solely to a
saving in gas and labor. There is also an actual and great economy in
food, for there is almost no waste in this method of cooking. Take for
example a 5-pound piece of beef from the round. Put this in the kettle
of the fireless cooker with a pint of water for each pound of meat.
Heat it on the gas range slowly, taking about twenty minutes to bring it
to the boiling point. Then, according to directions, place it in the
fireless cooker and finish the cooking. When it is done and tender, it
will be found that there is only a minute loss in weight; to be exact, 2
ounces for 5 pounds. You bought 5 pounds of meat and have to serve on
your table 4 pounds and 14 ounces. You could not make any such showing
if you had cooked the meat on a gas or coal range.

Four pounds and 14 ounces, however, is not all that you have to serve.
You originally added to your meat 5 pints of water. A little of this
evaporated or cooked away in the twenty minutes primary cooking on the
stove. All the rest is retained, for there is absolutely no evaporation
in a fireless cooker. This water has added to it the nutritive value and
flavor acquired from the meat. So besides your 4 pounds and 14 ounces of
meat you have over 4 pints of rich soup stock which has cost you
absolutely nothing, as it is a by-product of the system of fireless
cooking.

"But," objects some one, "the meat cooked in such wise will have lost
all its juice and flavor." On the contrary, there is a distinct gain in
the matter of flavor in fireless cookery. We absolutely know this to be
so, for we have had various cuts of meat, especially the cheaper cuts,
cooked in a fireless cooker and the dishes so prepared have been
submitted to competent judges; the opinion was unanimous that there was
a real difference between the flavor of meats so cooked and that of
corresponding cuts cooked after the usual methods, and that the delicacy
and richness of flavor lay with those meats cooked by the fireless
method.

When one understands the principles of cookery this richness of flavor
of meats cooked by the fireless method is not surprising. Every one
knows the proverbial deliciousness of French cookery. The special
peculiarity of the French cuisine is the long, slow simmering of meats
in closely covered earthen pots called casseroles. The principle is
essentially that of the fireless cooker, but the casserole not being
insulated, the French cook is obliged to keep on supplying a sufficient
degree of heat to keep the casserole warm and its contents simmering.

Examples of fireless cooking with which many persons are familiar by
experience or hearsay are the foods cooked in primitive ways, whose
deliciousness is generally ascribed to the "hunger sauce" that
accompanies outdoor cookery. Among such examples are the burying of the
saucepan in a hole in the ground, the cooking of food by dropping heated
stones into the mixture, and the clambake known among the Narragansett
Indians. In all these cases we have the principle of the fireless
cooker--_i. e._, closely-covered food slowly cooked at low temperature.
Indeed, one fireless cooker is constructed directly on the principle
employed in the New England clambake, and every one knows the
deliciousness of food so cooked has become proverbial.

By the fireless cooker the cheaper cuts of meat can be cooked so that
they are delicious, appetizing, tender. There is here a distinct saving
in money, for by the employment of the fireless method of cooking, the
cheaper cuts of meat can be made to serve all the purposes of the
higher-priced pieces. Further, if the meats are stewed, boiled, or
steamed, you also acquire at no cost whatever as many pints of delicious
soup stock, less one, as you have pounds of meat.

Let us now recapitulate the advantages of fireless cooking:--


A Fireless Cooker Saves Money

1. Because by its use cheaper meats can be made to answer as well as
higher-priced cuts.

2. Because out of a given quantity of raw material you get, after the
cooking is done, more actual food than by any other method.


A Fireless Cooker Saves Fuel

You have only to burn your gas twenty minutes for a 5-pound piece of
meat for fireless cooking, whereas by the usual method you would burn
the gas two to four hours, according to the way you desired the meat
cooked.


A Fireless Cooker Saves Time

Because you have only to watch the meat until it boils. By the usual
method you must attend to it all the hours it is on cooking.


A Fireless Cooker Saves Irritation and Worry

For by this method of cooking the housewife knows that the food cannot
burn or overcook.


A Fireless Cooker Adds to the Intellectual Expansion and the Pleasures
of the Family

Because it gives the mother time from her kitchen to oversee the
development of her children, and to share with them and their father
their pleasures and interests.


To the Wage-earning Woman

the fireless cooker is a positive godsend. She can put food into the
cooker before going to work, and return to find her meal all ready.


If the Housewife Lives in the City

and has to serve dinner at night all the preliminary cooking can be done
at noon, and the meal placed in the fireless cooker till evening.


To the Bachelor Girl

who lives by means of a kitchenette, and must do her cooking in what is
at once parlor, bedroom and kitchen, what a blessing is the absence of
heat and odors that the fireless cooker assures.


In Conclusion

we quote from a bulletin published by the University of Illinois, in
which a study is made of the methods of roasting and cooking meats. The
authors found that there was no advantage in cooking meat in a very hot
oven (385 degrees Fahrenheit), but rather a difficulty to keep it from
burning; that in an oven which was about 350 degrees Fahrenheit the meat
cooked better; and that in an Aladdin oven, which kept the meat at 212
degrees Fahrenheit, it cooked best of all--that is, it was of more
uniform character all through, more juicy and more highly flavored.
These findings point to an advantage in fireless cooking, and Miss
Mitchell asserts that practical experience bears it out. With regard to
meats cooked in water in the cooker, Miss Mitchell asserts that
experience has shown that they become well done and are more tender than
when boiled, showing that the temperatures necessary to reach that
degree of cooking are obtained even in the center of a large piece of
meat, without toughening or hardening the outside of the meat, as is
done when more intense heat is applied.




Recipes


The following recipes are for the cheaper cuts of meat exclusively, and
employ one or another of the preceding methods. Note that in all the
recipes the two general rules for tender and juicy meat are observed.
The outside of the meat is first quickly seared over to prevent the
escape of the juices, and after the first five minutes the heat is
reduced so as not to harden the albumen. Boiled or fricasseed meats
should cook slowly. If meat is boiled at a gallop the connective tissue
is destroyed, the meat falls from the bones in strings, and is hard and
leathery.

For stews, meat en casserole, or in any fashion where water is used in
the cooking, select the round (5), either upper or under. For boiling,
the clod (9) or the round (5) or the extreme lower piece of (3). For
rolled steak, mock fillet, steak à la Flamande, or beefsteak pie, the
flank steak (7) is best. For cheap stews use (10). For beef à la mode,
in a large family use a thick slice of the round (5), for a small family
the clod (9). For soup, use the shin or leg. For beef tea, mince meat,
and beef loaf, the neck is best. The chuck (1) is used only for roasting
or baking, and is good value only for a large family. (2) and (3) are
the standing ribs and carve to the best advantage. The aitch or pin bone
(in 3) is a desirable roast for a large family. (3) is the loin, the
choicest part of the animal. From it come the fillet or tenderloin, the
sirloin, and the porterhouse steaks. (4) is the rump, from which come
good steaks for broiling.


Beef Cannelon with Tomato Sauce

(One of the nicest and easiest of the cheap dishes)

Use Flank Steak (7)

  1 pound uncooked beef chopped fine
  1 cupful cold boiled potatoes
  1 teaspoonful salt
  1 egg unbeaten
  1/4 teaspoonful white pepper
  1/2 cupful Swift's beef extract
  1 tablespoonful Swift's Premium Oleomargarine

  Mix together beef, potatoes, salt, and pepper, and stir in egg last.
      Form into a roll 6 inches long. Roll this in a piece of white
      paper which has been oiled on both sides. Place in a baking-pan
      and add the beef extract and the oleomargarine. Bake half an
      hour, basting twice over the paper.

{Footer: Swift's Premium Oleomargarine reduces the cost of good living.}

  To serve beef cannelon, remove the paper, place the roll on the
      platter, and pour over it

Tomato Sauce

  1 tablespoonful Swift's Premium Oleomargarine
  1 cupful strained tomatoes
  1 teaspoonful onion juice
  1 tablespoonful flour
  1/4 teaspoonful white pepper
  1 bay-leaf

  Add onion, bay leaf, salt and pepper to tomatoes. Rub the
      oleomargarine and flour together and place in inner kettle of
      oatmeal cooker, set over the fire, add the tomato, and stir until
      it boils. Then place the kettle over hot water in the lower half
      of the oatmeal cooker, and cook so for ten minutes, when it is
      ready to serve.


Spanish Minced Beef in Meat Box

(Very pretty and palatable)

Use any of the cheaper cuts.

The Filling

  1 tablespoonful Swift's Premium Oleomargarine
  1 onion chopped fine
  6 sweet peppers cut in strips
  4 tomatoes peeled, cut in halves and seeds squeezed out
  1/2 teaspoonful salt

  Make the filling first. Put the oleomargarine in upper half of an
      oatmeal kettle, add onion and peppers, and simmer gently for
      twenty minutes.

  Then add the tomato halves cut into three or four pieces each and cook
      twenty minutes longer. Then add salt and pepper and set over hot
      water in lower half of kettle to keep hot till wanted. Now make
      the

Meat Box

  2 pounds uncooked beef chopped fine
  1 egg unbeaten
  1 teaspoonful salt
  1/4 teaspoonful pepper

  Work all well together. Form into a box whose sides are about an inch
      thick. Place this box on a piece of oiled paper in the bottom of
      a baking-pan and bake in a quick oven for thirty minutes, basting
      twice with melted oleomargarine.

  To serve, lift box carefully, and place on platter and pour the
      filling into the center, and send at once to the table.

{Footer: Swift's Premium Oleomargarine is a delicious, wholesome spread
for bread.}


Beef à la Mode

Use Clod (9) or Under Round (5)

  The day before the beef is to be served rub it all over with the
      following, well mixed together:--

  1/2 teaspoonful ground cloves
  1 teaspoonful ground ginger
  1/2 teaspoonful ground allspice
  1/2 teaspoonful ground cinnamon
  1/2 teaspoonful white pepper

  Then sprinkle the beef with about two tablespoonfuls vinegar and let
      stand overnight. Next day put in the bottom of the roasting pan:--

  1 cupful small white button onions (chopped onion will do)
  1 cupful carrot cut in dice
  1/2 teaspoonful celery-seed
  1 bay-leaf
  4 cupfuls Swift's beef extract or of stock
  2 tablespoonfuls gelatine that has been soaked in cold water for
  half an hour

  Lay the meat on the vegetables in the pan, cover closely, and set in
      an exceedingly hot oven until the meat has browned a little; then
      reduce the temperature of the oven, and cook very slowly for four
      hours, basting frequently.

  Serve garnished with the vegetables. Make a brown sauce from the stock
      left in the pan.

  This is a very good way to prepare meat in warm weather, as the spices
      enable it to be kept well for over a week. It is excellent served
      cold with

Creamed Horseradish Sauce

  4 tablespoonfuls grated horseradish with the vinegar drained off
  1/4 teaspoonful salt
  6 tablespoonfuls thick cream
  Yolk of 1 egg

  Add the salt and egg-yolk to the horseradish and mix thoroughly; whip
      the cream stiff, and fold it in carefully and send at once to
      table.

{Footer: Have you seen Swift's Premium Oleomargarine? Its appearance is
appetizing.}


Boiled Beef

Use cuts from (1), (8), (9), (11)

  Put the trimmings and suet of the beef into a large kettle and try
      out the fat.

  Remove the cracklings or scraps and into the hot fat put the meat and
      turn quickly until it is red on all sides.

  Cover completely with boiling water and boil rapidly for five minutes,
      then turn down the gas or remove kettle to back of coal range so
      that the water cannot possibly boil again, and cook fifteen
      minutes to each pound of meat.

  One hour before it is done add one tablespoonful salt and one-quarter
      teaspoonful pepper.

  When done garnish with watercress, or boiled cabbage, or vegetables.

  The liquor in which the meat was boiled can be saved for soup, or made
      into brown sauce to serve with it.

  Left-over boiled beef may be served cold cut in thin slices, or made
      into croquettes, or into meat and potato roll, or into various
      warmed-over dishes.


Steak en Casserole

Use a Round Steak (5) 1 inch thick

  2 pounds uncooked steak cut in pieces 2 inches square
  1 cupful small white button onions
  1 tablespoonful chopped parsley
  1/2 cupful carrot cut in dice
  1/2 cupful white turnip cut in dice
  1/4 teaspoonful celery-seed
  1 teaspoonful salt
  1/4 teaspoonful white pepper
  2 cupfuls Swift's beef extract or of stock boiling hot

  Cover the bottom of the casserole with a layer of the mixed
      vegetables.

  Put in an iron frying-pan over the fire to heat. When hot, rub over
      the bottom with a piece of Swift's Premium Oleomargarine. Lay in
      the pieces of steak and brown quickly on both sides. Remove them
      from the frying-pan and arrange on the vegetables in the
      casserole. Cover them with the remaining vegetables. Sprinkle over
      the celery-seed, salt, and pepper, and then pour the hot stock
      over all. Cover the dish and bake for one hour in a quick oven.

  Steak en Casserole should be sent to the table in the same dish in
      which it is cooked. The steak should be brown and tender, the
      vegetables slightly brown, and the stock nearly all absorbed.

{Footer: Swift's Premium Oleomargarine is U. S. Government Inspected and
Passed.}


Beef Loaf

Use cuts from Chuck (1) or the Round (5)

  4 pounds uncooked meat chopped fine
  2 cupfuls bread-crumbs
  2 tablespoonfuls chopped parsley
  1 level teaspoonful pepper
  4 eggs unbeaten
  1 large onion chopped fine
  2 rounding teaspoonfuls salt

  Mix meat and onion. Add the dry ingredients next. Mix well, then add
      the eggs. Pack all down hard in a square bread-pan so the loaf
      will take the form of the pan.

  Bake for two hours in a moderately quick oven, basting every fifteen
      minutes with hot Swift's Beef Extract or hot stock. When done, set
      away in the pan until cold.

  To serve, turn out on a platter and cut in thin slices and serve with
      catsup or with cream horseradish sauce. Recipe for the latter is
      given under "Beef à la Mode."


Little Beef Cakes

Use any of the cheaper cuts

  1 pound uncooked beef chopped fine
  1 tablespoonful Swift's Premium Oleomargarine
  1 tablespoonful flour
  1/2 teaspoonful salt
  1 tablespoonful grated onion
  2 cupfuls beef extract or stock
  1 teaspoonful kitchen bouquet
  1/4 teaspoonful white pepper

  Shape the meat into little cakes. Put the oleomargarine in a
      frying-pan, and when hot lay in the cakes and brown quickly on
      both sides. Then remove the cakes.

  Into the oleomargarine left in the pan put the flour and brown. Then
      add the stock gradually, stirring all the time so there will be no
      lumps. When smooth add the seasonings. Then lay in the beef cakes,
      cover, and cook slowly for five minutes. Serve at once with the
      sauce poured over them.

{Footer: Have you tried Swift's Premium Oleomargarine? It is worth
trying.}


Curry Balls

Use any of the cheaper cuts

  1 pound uncooked beef chopped fine
  2 tablespoonfuls Swift's Premium Oleomargarine
  1 tablespoonful flour
  1 level teaspoonful salt
  1 teaspoonful curry-powder
  1 onion chopped
  1 cupful strained tomatoes
  1/4 teaspoonful white pepper

  Make the meat into little balls. Put one tablespoon oleomargarine in
      frying-pan, and in it cook the onion slowly without browning it
      until the onion is soft. Then add the curry-powder and meat
      balls, and shake the pan over a quick fire for ten minutes.

  Put the second tablespoonful oleomargarine in another frying-pan, and
      when hot add to it the flour. Stir well, then add the salt, pepper
      and tomato. Let come to a boil and then pour over the meat balls.
      Cover and cook slowly for five minutes.

  Curry balls are nicest served with boiled rice.


Smothered Beef with Corn Pudding

Use any of the cheaper cuts

  2 pounds uncooked beef chopped fine
  1 level teaspoonful salt
  2 tablespoonfuls Swift's Premium Oleomargarine
  1/4 teaspoonful pepper

  This meat should be free from fat. Have ready an iron pan very hot.
      Put the chopped meat in it and set in a very hot oven for fifteen
      minutes, stirring it once or twice. Then add the oleomargarine,
      salt and pepper, and serve at once with

Corn Pudding

  1 can corn
  1 cupful milk
  1 level teaspoonful salt
  1 teaspoonful baking-powder
  1/4 teaspoonful white pepper
  3 eggs
  1-3/4 cupfuls flour

  Mix corn with milk, salt and pepper. Add the yolks, well beaten. Sift
      the flour with the baking-powder and add it gradually. Lastly,
      fold in the well-beaten whites of the eggs. Bake in a quick oven
      for thirty minutes.

{Footer: The high price of butter has no terror for users of Swift's
Premium Oleomargarine.}


Beefsteak Pie

Use the Flank Steak (7) or Round (5)

  2 pounds uncooked meat cut in inch cubes
  1 cupful flour
  1 tablespoonful parsley chopped fine
  1/4 pound suet freed of membrane and chopped fine
  1 onion chopped fine
  1 cupful Swift's beef extract or stock boiling hot
  1 teaspoonful salt
  1/4 teaspoonful pepper

  Put meat in deep pudding-dish and sprinkle over it parsley, onion,
      salt and pepper.

  To the suet add the flour, a pinch of salt, and sufficient ice water
      to moisten, but not to make wet. Knead a little until it can be
      rolled out in a crust large enough to cover the top of the
      pudding-dish.

  Pour the boiling stock over the meat. Spread the crust over it and cut
      a slit in the top. Brush over with milk and bake in a moderate
      oven one and a quarter hours.

  Serve in same dish with a napkin folded around it.


Braised Beef

Use inch thick slice from Under Round (5)

  1/2 cupful onion chopped
  1/2 cupful carrot cut in dice
  1/2 cupful turnip cut in dice
  1/2 cupful celery cut in 1/2-inch lengths
  1 stem parsley
  6 peppercorns
  3 cloves
  1 bay-leaf
  1 teaspoonful salt
  4 cupfuls Swift's beef extract

  Rub the slice of meat with flour. Have ready bacon or pork fat very
      hot in frying-pan. Lay in the meat and brown quickly on both
      sides.

  Spread the seasonings and vegetables over the bottom of a baking-pan.
      Lay the browned meat upon them; add the Swift's beef extract;
      cover, and bake three hours in very slow oven, basting every
      fifteen minutes.

  To serve, lay meat in center of the platter. Place vegetables around
      it. Make a brown sauce with the liquor left in pan and pour over
      the vegetables.

{Footer: Use Swift's Premium Oleomargarine on your table and for
cooking.}


Brown Beef Stew with Dumplings

Use Bony End Shoulder (10) or Veiny Piece (lower 3)

  2 pounds uncooked beef cut in inch cubes
  2 tablespoonfuls flour
  1 teaspoonful kitchen bouquet
  1 small carrot cut in dice
  1/4 teaspoonful pepper
  1 teaspoonful salt
  2 ounces of suet
  2 cupfuls Swift's Beef Extract or of stock
  1 onion
  1 bay-leaf

  Roll the meat cubes in one tablespoonful of the flour. Put suet in
      frying-pan and shake over fire until melted. Remove the
      crackling, put in the meat cubes and turn till they are slightly
      browned on all sides. Remove the meat.

  Into the fat in the pan stir the second tablespoonful of flour; mix
      and add gradually the stock, stirring all the while so there will
      be no lumps. When smooth, return the meat to the pan, add the
      vegetables and seasonings. Cover the pan, draw to the back of the
      coal range, or reduce the flame of the gas so that the stew will
      not boil, and let it simmer for one and one-half hours.

  Ten minutes before serving make the

Dumplings

  2 cupfuls flour
  1 rounding teaspoonful baking-powder
  1/2 level teaspoonful salt
  2/3 cupful milk

  Sift flour, baking-powder, and salt together. Add the milk. Take to
      fire and drop the mixture by spoonfuls all over the stew. Cover
      and cook slowly for ten minutes without once removing the cover.

  To serve, lift the dumplings carefully and lay around the edge of the
      platter; place stew in the center, and over it pour the sauce.

{Footer: Wherever butter is specified in a recipe use a slightly smaller
quantity of Swift's Premium Oleomargarine, it costs less and is just as
good.}


Timetable for Baking

  Beans (if prepared by soaking and boiling), 3 to 4 hrs.
  Beef sirloin or rib, rare, weight 5 pounds, 1 hr. 5 min.
  Beef sirloin or rib, well done, weight 5 pounds, 1 hr. 40 min.
  Beef rump, rare, weight 10 pounds, 1 hr. 35 min.
  Biscuit raised, 12 to 20 min.
  Biscuits, baking-powder, 12 to 15 min.
  Bread, white loaf, 45 to 60 min.
  Bread, graham loaf, 35 to 45 min.
  Cake, layer, 15 to 25 min.
  Cake, loaf, 40 to 60 min.
  Cake, sponge, 45 to 60 min.
  Chicken, 3 to 4 pounds, 1-1/2 to 2 hrs.
  Cookies, 6 to 10 min.
  Custard (baked in cups), 20 to 25 min.
  Duck, domestic, 1 to 1-1/2 hrs.
  Duck, wild, 20 to 30 min.
  Fish, thick, 3 to 4 pounds, 45 to 60 min.
  Fish, small, 20 to 30 min.
  Gingerbread, 25 to 35 min.
  Lamb leg, well done, 1-1/2 to 2 hrs.
  Mutton, 1-1/2 to 2 hrs.
  Pork, well done, 4 pounds, 2 hrs.
  Potatoes, 35 to 50 min.
  Puddings, rice, bread, 45 to 60 min.
  Veal leg, well done, per pound, 20 min.


Timetable for Boiling

  Asparagus, 20 to 30 min.
  Beans, shell, 1 to 1-1/2 hrs.
  Beans, string, 45 to 60 min.
  Beets, young, 45 to 60 min.
  Beets, old, 3 to 4 hrs.
  Brown bread, steamed, 3 hrs.
  Cabbage, 35 to 60 min.
  Carrots, 1 hr.
  Cauliflower, 20 to 30 min.
  Chickens, young, 3 to 4 pounds, 1 to 1-1/4 hrs.
  Corn, green, 15 min.
  Corned Beef, gentle simmering, 3 to 4 hrs.
  Eggs, soft cooked (in water which does not boil), 4 to 6 min.
  Eggs, hard cooked (in water which does not boil), 35 to 45 min.
  Ham, weight 12 to 14 pounds, 4 to 5 hrs.
  Onions, 45 to 60 min.
  Rice in fast boiling water, 20 min.
  Smoked tongue, 4 hrs.


Timetable for Frying

  Bacon, 3 to 5 min.
  Fritters or doughnuts, 3 to 5 min.
  Croquettes, 3 to 5 min.
  Breaded chops, 10 to 20 min.
  Smelts, 3 to 5 min.
  Small fish, 1 to 4 min.




Index


                                                         PAGE

  Baking-Day Helps,                                         7

  Beef à la Mode,                                          24

  Beef Cannelon,                                           22

  Beef Loaf,                                               26

  Beefsteak Pie,                                           28

  Boiled Beef,                                             25

  Braised Beef,                                            28

  Brown Beef Stew,                                         29

  Butter Scotch,                                            6

  Cookies,                                                  6

  Cornbread,                                                4

  Corn Pudding,                                            27

  Cream Horseradish Sauce,                                 24

  Curry Balls,                                             27

  Dumplings,                                               29

  English Walnut Pudding,                                   5

  Fireless Cooker, The Practical Value and Use of,      15-21

  Ginger Bread,                                             6

  House-Cleaning Hints,                                     9

  House-Plant Suggestions,                                 11

  How to Use the Cheaper Cuts of Meat,                  12-14

  Illustration showing Standard Cuts of Beef,              14

  Laundry Helps,                                           10

  Lemon Pie,                                                4

  Little Beef Cakes,                                       26

  Loaf Fig Cake,                                            3

  Oatmeal Crackers,                                         5

  Oleomargarine, Swift's Premium,                  Foot Notes

  Oleomargarine, The Truth About,                           2

  Penoche,                                                  5

  Renovating Suggestions,                                   8

  Recipes,                                         3-6, 22-29

  Smothered Beef with Corn Pudding,                        27

  Spanish Minced Beef,                                     23

  Steak en Casserole,                                      25

  Sugar Cookies,                                            4

  Timetables (Baking, Boiling, Frying),                    30

  Tomato Sauce,                                            23

  Truth about Oleomargarine,                                2




  [Illustration]

  THE SHIRLEY PRESS
  CHICAGO




Transcriber's Note:


Both "to-day" and "today" appear in the original text. This has not been
changed.

In the plain-text versions of this book, bolding and italics on page
footers (shown as {Footer: text}) have not been represented.

The following corrections have been made to the text:

p. 11: "dopping" to "dropping" (dropping their buds)

p. 21: "Fahrenheat" to "Fahrenheit" (at 212 degrees Fahrenheit)

p. 22: "a la" to "à la" ("à la Flamande" and "à la mode")

p. 29: missing close bracket added (Bony End Shoulder (10) or Veiny
Piece)



***END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE KITCHEN ENCYCLOPEDIA***


******* This file should be named 33748-8.txt or 33748-8.zip *******


This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
http://www.gutenberg.org/dirs/3/3/7/4/33748



Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://www.gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.gutenberg.org/fundraising/pglaf.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://www.gutenberg.org/about/contact

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://www.gutenberg.org/fundraising/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.
To donate, please visit:
http://www.gutenberg.org/fundraising/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
